---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Extension Group Work"
---

This was one of the first group projects I've had in a CS class for a while. I really enjoyed having the opportunity to communicate with other CS students and work towards a common goal, and I think the members of our group all came in with a pretty similar amount of knowledge, having taken a lot of the same classes before this. Up until now, most of my CS projects have involved a lot of individual problem-solving, so it was also a good reminder of how powerful and productive a team can be. There are also some difficulties with teamwork when you are used to working by yourself; I definitely found myself struggling at times to fill everyone else in on how I arrived at a certain solution or clarifying the context surrounding a question I was asking. But these were all helpful to practice for real-life software engineering, which almost seems to involve more communication/talking than coding.

<!--more-->

For our project, my biggest contributions were in diving more deeply into the Javascript APIs for browser extensions and trying out different approaches to our desired functionality, which was simply to change the color of the active tab each time a user switched tabs. We initially met in person to work on it and got pretty stuck; we tried looking at other extensions and using an executeScript function that would hopefully change the CSS on the client side, but we could still not modify the actual tab color. The next night, I went to work on the project and noticed the "themes" API in the Mozilla docs. I realized that tab color was part of the theme, and wrote a few lines of code that changed the theme of the window on tabs.onActivated, which is an event that takes place when a user "activates" (switches to) a tab. It ended up working, and it was only around 5 lines of code. This process solidified for me the value of looking at the docs of whatever language or framework you are working with, while also teaching me how a basic browser extension is structured (it was much simpler than I thought). I still think I am a bit better at deep-diving into coding problems when I'm on my own, but having other teammates made the project a lot more fun and less stressful.

Seeing other teams present their projects was also really fun. I like how some people took the approach of "selling" us their extension while others emphasized what kind of open source community they were building along with their extension. For example, the Brightspace PDF viewer group really pitched us their idea, emphasizing its ease of use and memory-saving capacity, while the KodeHub group made a helpful user manual for new users/contributors. I was also really impressed by the functionality of some of the extensions. The Youtube Customizer seemed like it could have been professionally made and already popular on the extension marketplace.