---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Continued Reflections on Groupwork"
---

After a few weeks of working on p5.js as a group, I think we have made reasonable progress in contributions and reaching out to the community. In terms of code, we recently submitted our first pull request, which fixes a small issue surrounding parameter validation of important p5 drawing functions. This exposed us to one of p5's most unique and likable qualities, the Friendly Error System. Aimed at helping newer programmers better understand errors and how to fix them, errors under the FES use simple language and provide references to relevant documentation. Since this system is still in the works, my group and I thought it would be a helpful contribution and at an appropriate level for us to focus specifically on the FES. We reached out to the "stewards" (maintainers in charge of each subsect of p5) of FES and are waiting on their response, but we are looking to fix other related issues in the meantime. Besides this, since Bernice is a native Chinese speaker, she has been communicating with translators about possibly fixing some of the current Chinese translations to be more readable. Amber and I are both semi-proficient/learning Chinese, so we've learned some terms along the way as well.

<!--more-->

We did miss out on one good opportunity this week, after hearing too late that Qianqian Ye, the lead maintainer of p5, had come to New York and given a talk on open source and p5 right here at NYU. This would have been a perfect way to learn more and possibly ask questions or introduce ourselves to Qianqian in person, so our group was a bit bummed to have missed it. Since it didn't seem to be advertised through the p5 website (we found it on Qianqian's Instagram), we'll definitely be more vigilant about being aware of similar opportunities in the future.

So far we've found that trying to contact maintainers via email hasn't been the most successful, which suggests that they might prefer keeping contact between contributors on Discord and Github Issues. It could also be that they are just understandably busy, so we hope to keep making code/documentation contributions without relying too much on a reply. It would be nice to talk to at least one maintainer, especially about the Friendly Error System, so we will also keep looking more closely at related code and form some thoughts and questions to pose later on.