---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Open Source in the Industry, Further Groupwork"
---

## Open Source In the Industry
Like we talked about in class, the idea of Open Source being part of the "business world" sounds a bit paradoxical and strange. However, to me it began to make a lot more sense once Professor Klukowska and some students mentioned just how beneficial it might be for businesses to incorporate open source software into their models. 

With the success of Linux and other open source programs that were able to rival proprietary competitors, the quickness of development and idea generation no doubt is a big draw for most companies. It does make me wonder whether this use of open source to maximize profits really aligns with the otherwise "free" nature of open source, but it definitely seems like a good thing that companies like Google and Meta are offering more transparency this way. 

Companies like Redhat also introduce intriguing ways og involving open source in a business model. Developing and maintaining open source technologies in order to save time for their clients is smart and I'm impresseed by how well they've seem to do despite their acquisition. Overall, I'm still surprised by how many technologies I use or hear about a lot are open source, and while the intentions are usually just to increase profits, the growing presence of OSS in larger companies is nice to see.

## Groupwork
It's hard to believe that the semester and this class are almost over. Our group has transitioned into working on a different kind of contribution where we create an example for the p5 website rather than fixing an actual code-based issue. While not as easy as we initially expected, I think this was a good choice since it's helped increase our ability to actually use the tool we are working on. We also get to be more creative and come up with fun ways to display the power of p5 and its specific libraries (like p5.Framebuffer, the one we are working on). Right now, we are waiting on feedback on a simple sketch we made, and we are looking forward to seeing whatever feedback the contributor in charge might give us. We took some time to look at examples he has created himself, and he seems extremely creative and also open to helping others learn some more about computer graphics through p5. Our best-case scenario would be to have our example accepted and merged before our presentation, but I am confident that we'll have a nice-looking animation to show regardless.