---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Groupwork on p5.js"
---

Our group (Bernice Wu, Amber Li, and me) decided to contribute to p5.js, which is a Javascript library meant for creating drawings, animations, and other digital art in the browser. While we don't have a lot of direct experience with p5.js, we all have pretty extensive experience with Javascript and are very interested in what p5 has to offer. We acknowledged that our lack of knowledge of the library could be an issue, but we were also surprised at how easy p5 was to pick up after just an hour of playing around with it in class. We also all agreed to get to know it better during spring break.

<!--more-->

Besides how intuitive it is, another advantage of p5.js is how easy it is to set up. Since it is written in Javascript, the only real setup required is to install all of the Node packages it uses, which can be done with one npm command. Compared to some other projects, which sometimes require the installation of entire ecosystems in order to build, it is nice that we can easily jump into the source code of p5 and quickly begin to get to know its structure and functionality. From our initial looks, their code seems to be nicely organized, and they kindly include links to specific files and classes in their documentation.

Working as a group, I am confident that we can make contributions to p5.js, especially with some of the smaller issues on their Github. However, one of our challenges might be finding a way to interact more deeply with the community and the core maintainers. After reporting a small typo on their website, the lead developer of the project responded on Github and fixed the issue, all while welcoming us to the project and adding my name to their list of contributors on their README. I thought this was a great gesture and a big green flag in terms of the strength of their community, but I do wonder about whether they would be responsive to us requesting to attend a developer meeting or getting to know some of the leaders a bit better, especially since it is under the bigger Processing Foundation umbrella. They do not seem to have a main developer Discord or chat channel outside of Github, which indicates that they like keeping communication in the issue comments and on the practical side. We plan on reaching out to Qianqian Ye, the lead of the project, and see how we might be of bigger help in the future.