---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: Nearing the End"
---

## Open Source in Different Areas
On Wednesday we discussed some of the different areas we found in which open source is implemented in some way, whether it was actual software or just adopting open source principles. Some examples were more amusing, like the open source Cola, but I thought it was inspiring to see all of the different creative ways people are trying to make industies more accessible and open. For example, the Open Source Afro Hair Library addresses a very specific yet important issue regarding representation in video games, and Open Source Cola presents a way for smaller beverage companies to break into an almost monopolized industry.

<!--more-->

I ended up researching open source and graphic design, mostly because I have been using the software Inkscape to make vector designs since I was in middle/high school. I also looked into Genius, which is a site somewhat similar to Wikipedia but focused more on song lyrics. I wasn't completely sure if it fit under the open source umbrella, mostly because it adds a sort of social element through the annotations, but I think it is an interesting case of a company that wants to use the power of peer collaboration to make information more accessible. I found out that they also got into a copyright disagreement with Google over whether Google could rightfully display lyrics sourced from Genius without giving credit. It raises questions of ownership of information, as song lyrics are something that would belong to the artist who wrote them, but are also rarely released by said artists to the public in written form. It seems as though Genius attempts to address this by working with some artists to verify lyrics, but their whole model still revolves around relying on users to transcribe lyrics.

## Final Project

In terms of the final project, most of our work has been focused on finishing up our final contribution (example sketch for the p5 website) and preparing for our presentation on Monday. We spent some time reflecting on our work during our latest meeting, discussing what we've learned and what we struggled with throughout the semester. We tried to incorporate some fun elements into our presentation, including some p5 sketches that we and others made. While we didn't get to submit a pull request for our assigned issue, we decided to present some of the work we've been doing to maybe get some feedback. Overall, I am excited to show what we've done and finish up, but also sad that it's ending since the project was a lot of fun.