---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Mek Discussion and Personal Contributions"
---

I thought Mek's talk about his work on Open Library was inspiring and a great look into someone with a clear goal and moral outlook on digital accessibility. One of my favorite parts of the open source world so far is the fact that a lot of projects seem to be pushing for some kind of bigger movement, as is the case with Open Library and the desire to make all published content available to everyone in the world. I've looked around on Open Library and the Wayback Machine a few times before this, but hearing about the sheer number of websites restored (23 million) and books digitized (2 million) was mindblowing. I also appreciated how he outlined how to get involved with the project and seemed to really encourage us to ask questions and join the community. It seemed like he and all of the other maintainers genuinely want to take time out of their day to reply to newcomers, not to mention the extensive guides they've written to help as well. I will definitely be looking into contributing, whether or not it ends up being my chosen project for this class.

<!--more-->

My smaller personal contributions so far have been fairly minor, and I am working on finding ways to make a bit of a bigger impact, preferably in code form. One of my contributions involved changing the Wikipedia page for a location I'm familiar with, and the other was to open an issue for a small discrepency on the course website. In the future, I'll be looking at some Github projects I'm interested in (calibre, spotify-tui) to hopefully make some small contributions, as well as claiming some of the issues I've seen others report on the course website. I also would like to look into contributing to OpenStreetMap at least once. My biggest challenge so far has definitely been changing my mindset to focus on contributing rather than just viewing, as I'm so used to reading Wikipedia pages, looking at maps, and looking at Github code without even thinking about what I would change or add. Seeing things this way has definitely made me a bit more aware of how much I tend to blindly trust the content that is already out there, so contributing has helped me engage with what I consume more critically.