---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Git and Collaborative Coding"
---

Going over git this past week was very helpful for me. While I have some experience with general version control concepts from past classes and internships, it was nice to focus on git specifically and learn many of the commands and terminology relevant to working with other people on a project. It cleared up a lot of questions I didn't even know I had, namely the bigger picture concept of pulling and pushing to the remote origin and upstream repositories. 

<!--more-->

While our group for the browser extension project hasn't been using forks since we agreed that branches would suffice for now, we have been implementing a lot of what we learned in that class, including pushing to our own branches, creating pull requests, and reviewing each others code before merging it to the main branch. This has allowed us to experiment on our own "copies" of the code while discussing and sharing ideas with each other. There have been a few moments where we would have a mini-breakthrough moment and figure something out, and it was very helpful to be able to see exactly when each event happened through each branch's commit history. We definitely faced a lot of challenges early on, mostly on figuring out how to use the tabs API and events to get our desired behavior. We found that looking at examples of other extensions and thoroughly reading the documentation helped a lot. For example, this is how we discovered the theme API, allowing us to change tab colors on an event. I think my biggest contributions have been troubleshooting and searching extensively for specific functions to achieve what we want. I've enjoyed trying out new Javascript APIs and having fun with our extension's functionality.