---
layout: post
title: "Week 15: Final Post"
---

This is the final blog post for this class, which is sad but also a bit relieving. I still am not used to the idea of writing a post a week, and it's weird that I still sometimes struggle to generate ideas despite it not being that much content. Nonetheless, I think these blog posts gave us a good way to be more aware of what we do each week and personally helped me better remember everything I experienced in class this semester. I also appreciate the fact that this website will remain up (from my understanding) and act as a bit of a remnant of this moment in my college experience.

<!--more-->

Like I mentioned earlier, I am still not sure if I have completely wrapped my head around the idea of consistently blogging. In this class, I feel like the main purpose was to use it as a sort of diary, forcing us to take some time to actually think about each week rather than letting them each blend into the next. It ended up taking me around 20 minutes on average, which is such a small percentage of the week, but it really made a difference. Maybe blogging in other areas, such as personal interests or even other classes, could help people achieve a bit more clarity. Creating blog posts that would actually present novel thoughts or content seems like a whole other world, however, and I often stumble across many that seem to prioritize search engine optimization and ad profit over presenting actual important information. Writing these blog posts definitely made me think about the vastness of the internet and the fact that these posts will just be sitting here for years to come.

Finally, as a general reflection on this class, I would say that this has been one of my favorite computer science, if not in general, classes at NYU. Especially coming into college during the pandemic, there really hasn't been many opportunities to work with others in my major classes, so I enjoyed having a class that not only emphasized but relied on social connection to achieve goals. Learning about the history of open source and exploring many examples projects and companies was also very valuable, as I don't think I would have truly understood the importance of OSS otherwise. Finally, I had a great time working with Amber and Bernice on p5; it was nice getting to know them better throughout the project, and I feel like we successfully combined our skills to make good contributions. Thank you to Professor Klukowska and Utkarsh for everything this semester and I hope to keep contributing to the open source community in the future!