---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: A Reflection on Codes of Conduct"
---

When I think of open source projects, a Code of Conduct does not immediately cross my mind. Part of me might just be assuming that most of what would be included should already be common sense to people. However, after looking at a few examples and hearing about cases of poor conduct in open source communities, I understand why they are important to have, especially for projects with a large number of daily contributors.

Looking at the Code of Conduct for the Go project, I noticed that they really focus on the inclusion of diversity, whether that regards people's opinions, backgrounds, or any other characteristic. Compared to the Contributor Covenant, which is a general template to be built upon, they have added sections laying out their specific values, which boil down to basic decency between people. The Go project also seems to have especially fleshed out the Conflict Resolution section (called "Enforcement" in the Contributor Covenant), detailing specific steps to follow in case of conflict. This speaks to their desire to encourage the acknowledgment of different points of view.

The Sugar Labs Code of Conduct takes on a whole different form, using the Ubuntu Code of Conduct instead of the Contributor Covenant and focusing even more on their values by giving each one its own explanatory section. This format does not include the Our Responsibilities, Scope, and Enforcement sections seen in the Contributor Covenant and instead keeps it simple by using section titles that state their central tenets (i.e. "When you disagree, consult others"). I think this makes it more enjoyable to read and feel less like a obligatory corporate document. This also aligns with their kid-friendly mission as an education company. Their inclusion of a Spanish version is also a thoughtful touch.

Looking at the [Code of Conduct](https://wiki.blender.org/wiki/Contact/CodeOfConduct#:~:text=We%20will%20only%20take%20actions,is%20not%20a%20productive%20one.) for Blender, the open source 3D modelling software, I see a lot of room for improvement. The document is quite short and doesn't seem to be based on a particular template. It details some general rules, such as "Be respectful and considerate" or "Be patient and generous", with brief explanations under each rule. However, despite the document not being super detailed, the Blender developer community seems to be one of the most respectful and civil within the open source world. I think a lot of it has to do with the strong presence of long-time contributors and full-time employees who actively promote respectful behavior and healthy conflict resolution. I have seems a few exchanges (like [this](https://github.com/pencil2d/pencil/issues/1674#issuecomment-1021616592)) where a new contributor has been treated with lots of kindness and patience, with more experience contributors guiding them through finding and fixing issues. While I haven't directly seen the exchanges that happen in the Go project and Sugar Labs communities, I assume that they have similarly respectful contributors. I would like to see Blender focus a bit more attention on their Code of Conduct, but it is nice to see an example of an open source project that maintains kind behavior (at least from what I've briefly seen) through leading by example, even with few set rules of enforcement.