---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Reflection on Jim Hall's Talk"
---

## Invited Speaker: Jim Hall
Jim Hall's talk was inspiring to me, largely because of the passion he has for FreeDOS and it's inspiration MS-DOS, but also for his general enthusiasm for open source software and computing history. I appreciated how he talked us through his personal experiences with DOSs, even going into detail about specific spreadsheet managers and games he would play when he was younger. I think it was a great way to get us interested in FreeDOS's capabilities and everyday uses, and it convieniently answered the second part of the question I had prepared before his talk (How often do you use FreeDOS in your daily life and what are your favorite features?).

The idea that CS students should be more educated on computing history was also interesting to me. While it is covered in some of the more broad, conceptual courses like Operating Systems, I definitely have found that many professors seem to leave history out of their material. While it is understandable that they would want to focus on the technical content first and foremost, knowing how systems and technologies hae evolved over time provides an interesting other lens to see the content through, and it's a part of CS that I would like to starting diving a bit deeper into whenever I can. I loved hearing Jim's excitement when talking through his whole journey until now, and I value how he shared his own goals and what he would like to see in the CS world, as all good open source projects seem to have strong missions.

## p5 Contributions
While my group and I do not have many tangible contributions to show yet, I think our work with p5 so far has been fun and important for our future relationship with the p5 community. So far, we have reached out to the lead maintainer of the project, attended/volunteered at a coding fest run by the Processing Foundation (parent organization of p5), and taken a look at multiple issues that we think we might be able to tackle. One struggle has been finding issues that are both unclaimed and doable with our limited computer graphics knowledge. We did find a nicely organized "Projects" page within the p5 repository that we are using a guide for choosing issues, as well as looking out for small, "low hanging fruit" issues we can fix to get our foot in the door. I think we are all fairly familiar with the codebase by now, and we look forward to committing to fixing a specific issue at our next meeting.