---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Reflections on Christoper Snider Talk and Project Progress"
---

## Invited Speaker: Christopher Snider
Christoper Snider's talk presented another interesting take on open source software. When I think about applications of open source software, the medical field does not immediately pop up, and until the talk I would have felt like it's something that requires a lot of "experts" on the subject working closely together to create. Christopher addressed this preconception early on, as it seems like a common view of Tidepool and other similar software. His explanation of Tidepool's contribution process and recurring stand against "security through obscurity" was eyeopening and fit right into the ongoing conversation we have had about the Cathedral vs the Bazaar styles of development. While most medical software seems to fit the Cathedral mold and is proprietary, Tidepool is a great example of the Bazaar, where a community of driven individuals, most with a personal connection to the app's function, contribute to its growth. The fact that the app was recently FDA approved is a big win for both the diabetes and open source communities, and hearing about some of the hurdles Tidepool had to jump in order to reach this point was inspiring. Christopher's excitement was also contagious and I appreciated how he kept engaging with us to hear our opinions and questions.

<!--more-->

## Groupwork Progress
I am happy with the pace my group and I are going at, but we have faced a few challenges, mostly regarding communication and finding suitable issues to work on. After a few weeks of actively looking at issues, we have come to the conclusion that almost all of p5's open issues are either outdated or in a flux state where the main contributors haven't really decided how they want to proceed in terms of a fix. This has made it hard for us to find something that we can really dive into, as our solution could very well not align with the contributors'. As a result, we've decided to try to choose one of these bigger, more ambigious issues as the main focus of the rest of our project so we have enough time to properly communicate with maintainers and propose our solution before coding. We have also been looking at issues in some other repositories under the Processing organization, including the p5 website. While these issues are definitely more up our alley when it comes to difficulty level, we ran into the same problem where many of them are heavily commented on without any resolution. Despite this, we have managed to find a few issues that we believe we can solve within the remaining time and I am optimistic about our progress.