---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Reflections on Class Discussion and Standup Reports"
---

I really enjoyed this week's class discussion on the Cathedral and the Bazaar by Eric Raymond. I felt like almost all of the one-line lessons that we went over either made me think of an experience I've had or forced me to think about software development in a different way. Like someone in class said, this was also one of the few times where a CS class involved people sharing their opinions and considering different views on more abstract topics. While I could have participated more verbally, I felt really engaged and would have enjoyed discussing some of the ideas in smaller groups as well. One of the lessons that especially made me think a lot was "When you lose interest in a program, your last duty to it is to hand it off to a competent successor." I think it captures the communal feeling of open source and the idea that a project can be bigger than you, even as its creator. It also takes into account our changing attitudes and interests, and how one might owe it to themself and the world to pass their idea on to someone else, even if they not longer have a current interest in it. Sometimes finding a "competent successor" might not be easy or even possible, but I think Raymond is saying that it's important to always be aware of the value of a good idea/project.

<!--more-->

In general, I'd say I agree with most of Raymond's ideas about the effectiveness of a more widespread, decentralized approach to software development. I really like the idea of always making sure there are many eyes, both from developers and users, on the project and that more feedback is always better. As a person who tends to try to do things more independently, I think Raymond's ideas are good to keep in mind for my current and future projects.

Reflecting on our group work and some of the other groups' standup reports, I felt like my group and I have done a substantial amount of work on the project so far, especially in exploring different ways to contribute (code, volunteering, translations, etc.). Hearing some of the other groups' stories about painfully setting up their development environments was interesting and made us feel grateful for the easy setup of p5. While we did feel like our output was lacking in comparison to some groups who had already submitted multiple PRs and had code accepted, we also don't want to compare too much and just focus doing the most we can for our project.