---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: Early Thoughts on Open Source Software"
---

When I think of open source, I think of anything that is created and maintained through a series of contributions from the public. The introductory lecture of this class enlightened me on how licenses play into making something truly open source, and it was interesting to also consider projects like Wikipedia and OpenStreetMap, which are not open source in the context of code contribution but in that they are maintained and updated by everyday users. The ethics of open source are also something I am excited to explore and think about more. I think many large companies' use of open source code could be seen as profiting off of open source contributors' dedication and labor, leading to people retaliating through purposefully corrupting open source codebases. There is also the issue of toxicity within specific open source communities, raising the question of how much should reasonably be expected of newcomers to a project. In this class, I look forward to hearing other people's opinions and forming my own thoughts on the nuances of open source contribution.

Some specific open source projects that interest me are:

<!--more-->

1. Blender: 
While I still have a lot to learn about using Blender, one of the most popular 3D modelling engines, I find its functionality and accessibility to be a great example of successful open source software. It's also nice to see how much effort is put into the documentation for everyone from beginner users to people with advanced skills looking to contribute their own ideas.

2. calibre: 
Until now, I was unaware that many of the projects I'm listing here were open source, including calibre. This software allows people to manage ebooks, and I find it very useful for converting between file formats and transferring books to my Kindle.

1. Node.js: 
Node.js seems to be everywhere and I've enjoyed using it to create web apps in classes like Applied Internet Technologies here at NYU and also in my free time. Especially when used with Express, I've found it provides a useful environment for realtime development of web projects that might require more dynamic features.

1. spotify-tui: 
spotify-tui is a much more niche tool that I found on Github, essentially providing a Spotify client in the terminal. I found it when I was learning how to implement APIs in my own projects, and I think it's a great example of an open source project with a very dedicated set of users/contributors.