---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Reflection on Open Source"
---

Looking at projects both in and out of class, I feel like I've gotten a better idea of how to gauge a project and understand how easy or difficult it might be to contribute to. For example, my group and I looked at React in class, and we quickly noticed that while it had plenty of documentation and a large number of contributors, there were very few issues/bugs that actually looked beginner friendly. There also was not much discussion on issues that weren't of the highest priority, and the maintainers rely heavily on bots to weed out invalid pull requests. Considering how complex the codebase is, these factors all add up to a project that is daunting and for me personally, probably not the best choice. 

<!--more-->

In contrast, I looked into Flutter for one of my personal evaluations, and I felt that it would be a better fit for someone in our class. Unlike React, they had many beginner-friendly issues open that actually seemed realistic, and their contributor community seems very strong, with an emphasis on interaction through social events and video calls rather than just Github Issue comments. This was a good sign to me, as I look forward to trying my best to engage with the community when it comes time to fully devote myself to one specific project.

I think the main challenges we'll face are more likely to be related to team management, or making sure that everyone is contributing an equal amount and getting their voice heard. It's important that we consistently communicate where we're at and what our current goals are, especially since many of us are so used to diving into CS assignments on our own in past classes. Sending out messages early and getting acknowledged by core contributors will also be important and perhaps a bit challenging, since I know I often struggle with feeling like I have to be very experienced or knowledgable in a subject before being able to discuss it. However, I look forward to hopefully work hand in hand with my group and not be afraid to ask for help from the community we end up working with.